All right we're getting closer now to real circuits here.
So let's consider this one here we have a battery which has an e-mail equal to E and it's connected
to a resistor.
There are now the wire itself.
Here we're going to neglect any of the resistance of the wire because it's so much smaller than the
resistance here that have connected to it.
Now in the ideal case
the one I have in that diagram if you wanted to calculate the current well is say we have an MF here
so the terminal voltage here if you label the points the positive terminal is a the negative terminal
is B the voltage between points and B V-A mine is.
VB is given by that ESF.
And now if you apply Ohm's law to this Ohm's law says that voltage must be equal to the current multiplied
by the resistance.
So the current that you're going to get is going to be equal to the IMF or the battery divided by the
resistance a resistor that I connect to it.
So the smaller I make the resistance the more current I'm going to get.
The bigger I make the resistance the less current I get.
Now how does that compare to real life
in real life actually if you go ahead and look at what this terminal voltages.
That's what this is right.
The voltage between the two ends of the battery
the terminal voltage is actually a little bit smaller than that and it's a little bit smaller than that
because inside the battery there is also some internal resistance
my batteries get hot.
Or am I going with this.
Let's try this again.
Internal resistance.
And when you have internal resistance if you go ahead and look at the terminal voltage.
Now again if I would go through and I measure the voltage across the battery actually you get something
that is a little bit smaller.
First you get my ideal MF source but you'd get something that's a little bit smaller and the amount
that it's smaller will depend on how much current is actually flowing in the circuit.
And it also depends on the internal resistance so little are.
Here is what I'm going to call this internal resistance.
Actually I'm just connect that to what I've already written down.
So this here is the internal resistance of the battery.
So now if you really wanted to apply ohms law to this circuit what you would have to do now is well
this is the voltage the terminal voltage between the two ends of the battery.
So you'd write that down e minus the current I are and that there has to be equal to the resistance
multiplied by the current.
All right and now I can go ahead and calculate what the current is.
So you have to bring this term on the other side.
If I do that and then a group terms together this is the current that I get.
So we see that for a real battery which has some internal resistance to it.
The amount of current that you're going to get is going to be a little bit smaller.
It's a little bit smaller than the ideal case because you get a bigger resistance you get whatever resistance
you have that you've connected to it.
You also have an additional internal resistance of the battery and that tends to make the voltage difference
smaller.
And if the voltage difference is smaller that's going to lead to less current.
OK.
So just a few words about that.